REST embedder guide (#3164)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/ai_powered_search/configure_rest_embedder.mdx

---
title: Configure a REST embedder
description: Create Meilisearch embedders using any provider with a REST API
---

# Configure a REST embedder

You can integrate any text embedding generator with Meilisearch if your chosen provider offers a public REST API.

> Integrating a REST embedder with Meilisearch varies depending on the provider and the way it structures its data. This guide shows you where to find the information you need, then walks you through configuring your Meilisearch embedder based on the information you found.

Author: ```suggestion
The process of integrating a REST embedder with Meilisearch varies depending on the provider and the way it structures its data. This guide shows you where to find the information you need, then walks you through configuring your Meilisearch embedder based on the information you found.
```

Most providers accept either a string or an array of strings. A single string will generate one request per document in your database:

```json
{
  "EMBEDDER_NAME": {
    "source": "rest",
    "url": "PROVIDER_URL",
    "request": {
      "model": "MODEL_NAME",
      "input": "{{text}}"
    }
  }
}
```

`{{text}}` indicates Meilisearch should replace the contents of a field with your document data, as indicated in the embedder's [`documentTemplate`](/reference/api/settings#documenttemplate).

An array of strings allows Meilisearch to send up to 10 documents in one request, reducing the number of API calls to the provider:

```json
{
  "EMBEDDER_NAME": {
    "source": "rest",
    "url": "PROVIDER_URL",
    "request": {
      "model": "MODEL_NAME",
      "input": [
        "{{text}}", 
        "{{..}}"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

When using array prompts, the first item must be `{{text}}`. If you want to send multiple documents in a single request, the second array item must be `{{..}}`. When using `"{{..}}"`, it must be present in both `request` and `response`.

> When using other tools, `input` might be called something else, like `text` or `prompt`:

Author: ```suggestion
When using other embedding providers, `input` might be called something else, like `text` or `prompt`:
```

```json
{
  "EMBEDDER_NAME": {
    "source": "rest",
    "url": "PROVIDER_URL",
    "request": {
      "model": "MODEL_NAME",
      "text": "{{text}}"
    }
  }
}
```

### Provide other request fields

> You may add as many fields to the `request` object as you need. Meilisearch will send them as configured when it queries the embeddings provider.

Author: ```suggestion
You may add as many fields to the `request` object as you need. Meilisearch will include them when querying the embeddings provider.
```

        {
          "embedding": "{{embedding}}"
        },
        "{{..}}"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

When using `"{{..}}"`, it must be present in both `request` and `response`.

It is possible the response contains a single embedding outside of an array. Use `"{{embedding}}"` as its value:

```json
{
  "EMBEDDER_NAME": {
    "source": "rest",
    "url": "PROVIDER_URL",
    "request": {
      "model": "MODEL_NAME",
      "input": "{{text}}"
    },
    "response": {
      "data": {
        "text": "{{embedding}}"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

It is also possible the response is a single item or array not nested in an object:

```json
{
  "EMBEDDER_NAME": {
    "source": "rest",
    "url": "PROVIDER_URL",
    "request": {
      "model": "MODEL_NAME",
      "input": [
        "{{text}}",
        "{{..}}"
      ]
    },
    "response": [
      "{{embedding}}",
      "{{..}}"
    ]
  }
}
```

The prompt data type does not necessarily match the response data type. For example, Cloudflare always returns an array of embeddings, even if the prompt in your request was a string.

Meilisearch silently ignores `response` fields not pointing to an `"{{embedding}}"` value.

## The embedding header

> Your provider might also request you to add specific headers to your request. For example, Azure's AI services require a `api-key` header containing an API key.

Author: ```suggestion
Your provider might also request you to add specific headers to your request. For example, Azure's AI services require an `api-key` header containing an API key.
```
